README.md, before:

# dnsmon-go

![dnsmon-go](https://github.com/jonpulsifer/dnsmon-go/workflows/dnsmon-go/badge.svg)
![docker](https://github.com/jonpulsifer/dnsmon-go/workflows/docker/badge.svg)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/jonpulsifer/dnsmon-go)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/jonpulsifer/dnsmon-go)

This is a little program I wrote inspired by [passivedns](https://github.com/gamelinux/passivedns)

It logs all DNS packets it sees on a given interface

Sample output on Windows:

```powershell
INFO[0000] Prometheus endpoint: http://0.0.0.0:8080/metrics
INFO[0000] No flags specified, using defaults            interface="\Device\NPF_{2652E425-01C4-4EB5-AE0F-0DE011B69C61}" promiscuous=true snaplen=65536
INFO[0000] Listening on device: \Device\NPF_{2652E425-01C4-4EB5-AE0F-0DE011B69C61}
INFO[0003] QUERY                                         class=IN dst=8.8.8.8 id=19712 name=pulsifer.dev opcode=Query rcode="No Error" src=192.168.2.21 type=A
INFO[0003] QUERY                                         class=IN dst=192.168.2.21 id=19712 name=pulsifer.dev opcode=Query rcode="No Error" src=8.8.8.8 type=A
INFO[0003] ANSWER                                        class=IN dst=192.168.2.21 id=19712 ip=192.30.252.153 name=pulsifer.dev opcode=Query rcode="No Error" src=8.8.8.8 type=A
INFO[0003] ANSWER                                        class=IN dst=192.168.2.21 id=19712 ip=192.30.252.154 name=pulsifer.dev opcode=Query rcode="No Error" src=8.8.8.8 type=A
```

Metrics sponsored in part by prometheus #cloudnative

![grafana](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jonpulsifer/dnsmon-go/master/images/grafana.png)

Commit message:

docker-compose w/ grafana and prom setup
Signed-off-by: Jonathan Pulsifer <jonathan.pulsifer@shopify.com>

README.md, after:

# dnsmon-go

![dnsmon-go](https://github.com/jonpulsifer/dnsmon-go/workflows/dnsmon-go/badge.svg)
![docker](https://github.com/jonpulsifer/dnsmon-go/workflows/docker/badge.svg)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/jonpulsifer/dnsmon-go)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/jonpulsifer/dnsmon-go)

This is a little program I wrote inspired by [passivedns](https://github.com/gamelinux/passivedns)

It logs all DNS packets it sees on a given interface

Sample output on Windows:

```powershell
INFO[0000] Prometheus endpoint: http://0.0.0.0:8080/metrics
INFO[0000] No flags specified, using defaults            interface="\Device\NPF_{2652E425-01C4-4EB5-AE0F-0DE011B69C61}" promiscuous=true snaplen=65536
INFO[0000] Listening on device: \Device\NPF_{2652E425-01C4-4EB5-AE0F-0DE011B69C61}
INFO[0003] QUERY                                         class=IN dst=8.8.8.8 id=19712 name=pulsifer.dev opcode=Query rcode="No Error" src=192.168.2.21 type=A
INFO[0003] QUERY                                         class=IN dst=192.168.2.21 id=19712 name=pulsifer.dev opcode=Query rcode="No Error" src=8.8.8.8 type=A
INFO[0003] ANSWER                                        class=IN dst=192.168.2.21 id=19712 ip=192.30.252.153 name=pulsifer.dev opcode=Query rcode="No Error" src=8.8.8.8 type=A
INFO[0003] ANSWER                                        class=IN dst=192.168.2.21 id=19712 ip=192.30.252.154 name=pulsifer.dev opcode=Query rcode="No Error" src=8.8.8.8 type=A
```

## Grafana

![grafana](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jonpulsifer/dnsmon-go/master/images/grafana.png)

A dashboard has been included to get you started using `docker-compose`.

1. `docker-compose up`
2. Navigate to `localhost:3000` and log in to Grafana using `admin:admin`
3. Generate some DNS queries using `docker-compose exec dnsmon-go nslookup example.com`
4. Watch the dashboard go brr
